2Ɵ, TwoTheta:OI-xxxx : outcome of Position Scan?
Analytical Assistant:OI-xxxx
AGC, Automatic Gain Control:Compensates the energy loss of the signal at high count rate. This loss is increasing with the count rate. So the AGC enable to place maximum peak pulse distribution at more or less always the same mV. The AGC is adjusted to start to compensate from 10 KCps and this is electronically calculated during the HVCAL.
Analytical Condition:Configuration of the Source (e.g. energy profile for spark Argon-flow) + duration of phases.
Analytical Line:Elements to be measured (wavelength, matrix, order, grating) and linked source conditions
Analytical Method:OI-xxxx
Analytical Plan:The Analytical Plan is the list of analytical lines required to meet the customer needs. It is based on the Optical plan. Describes what customer wants to measure, and in what priority (since trade-offs might be needed); the Optical Plan is a solution to this. The plan describes what lines need to be analysed, and which calibrations are needed for that.
Analytical SW:The software that controls the instrument (OXSAS) + any tools to test it (such as IOP-Procs)
Angular resolution:OI-xxxx
Announcement:A message to inform specific users of CARL/Toucan that a significant change has been made.
Application:Describes the required developments to do for each Matrix: all the required qualities, other specific applications such as Spark-DAT, extensions, etc.
Argon:Inert gas usually used to measure wavelengths <190nm. It is currently used to flush the spark-chamber (OES-only, both iSpark and easySpark) but can also be used to fulfil spectrometers.
ARL:Applied Research Laboratory, the old name of the Ecublens part of ThermoFisher.
Article:An optional to be ordered for an instrument, OI-xxxx
Base:Also called "Matrix": it is the main element that constitutes at least ~ 45-50% of the sample.
BCC:See Calculation Steps
BCI:See Calculation Steps
BEA:Bulk Element Analysis, a business unit within Thermo Fisher Scientific.
BEC, Background Equivalent Concentration:A quantitative measure of background level is called the "Background Equivalent Concentration", or BEC, which is defined as the concentration of a given element that exhibits the same intensity as the background, measured at a given wavelength.
Bill-of-Material:The list of parts needed to construct a new instrument to order.
C#:A modern programming language from Microsoft.
Calculation Steps:Calculations by OXSAS on the data from its sensors
Calibration:Result of the calibration process. It contains : Samples for the current instrument calibration, Coefficients for every curve, Interferences for each curve, Segments
Calibration Batch:Describes which samples are to be measured during Calibration.
Calibration Process:The process of measuring certified samples and calculating the coefficients allowing to transform detected Intensities to Concentration. It uses MVR and may use CHAMELEON to speed up the process (saving three days, hence a few thousand dollars).
Calibration Ranges:Ranges of concentration, for each element, for a quality to be measured (in CARL it is called calibration ranges or calibration menus).
CARL:Calibration ARL. Databases and applications to construct a spectrometer, configure Analytical SW, calibrate it, keep and enhance the Master Knowledge with new Application, perform statistics from instruments in production, view calibration curves of all the produced instruments (OES), create CLOE2 knowledge database, manage all calibration samples.
CATSS:Computer Aided Tracking System of Specialties
CCD:Charge coupled device: Wide detector that allows detecting a range of optical lines.
CLOE, CLOE2:Tool that translates customer's requests into an Optical Plan. It uses part of the Master Knowledge. (Note: CLOE2 is the current iteration of CLOE; CLOE1 is not used anymore).
CHAMELEON:(CCD only, since it is based on Spectrum, which can only be measured with a CCD). A tool that generates "fake measurements" based on a limited set of actual measurements. The total set of actual+generated measurements is input to the regular MVR. This limits the need for samples (e.g. divide measured samples by 2 or 3) and therefore has a big gain in the time needed for calibration of the machine. Note that this is only for easySpark, which has lower specification (so this approximation from Chameleon is good enough).
Channel:Hardware line that transports the signal from the detector to the OXSAS software. It is also a software link between optical plan and analytical lines.
Collimator:A device to make X-Rays go parallel
Concentration:Concentration is the amount of an element in a sample, measured in % (weight %) or sometimes expressed in ppm for traces of elements (1 ppm = 0.0001%). Concentration are also available in samples certificates. Concentration is calculated from the measured intensity through the calibration coefficients and line choices
Counting Time:The time in which we read the data from the detector
CountTime:See Counting Time
CountTimeGlobal:See Counting Time
CRC:See Calculation Steps
Crystal:OI-xxxx
Curve:Correlation between intensity and concentration; can be divided into Segments.
DeadTime:Dead time is a parameter defined for each of the detectors used in our X-Ray instruments. An incident X-ray photon produces a series of "event" that are multiplied in the avalanche process by multiplier.
DL, Detection Limit:The Detection limit is the lowest concentration that could even be detected in a simple, clean matrix -- it is not repeatable or reliable as a reported value in a real sample. This is a metric for the sensitivity of a curve on a low concentration of an Element (hence the pure sample)
Diffractor:An element of a spectroscope that causes Diffraction, splitting the "light beam" into components that can be detected separately.
Drift:The Drift from an analytical point of view is the observation of the instrumental drift over a long period, due to ageing of different parts in the instrument, like the tube and detectors. The drift is managed by Setting Up Samples parameters and data.
Duration:Sometimes another word for Window, see PHD.
EasySpark:See OES EasySpark
Elliptical Mask:OI-xxxx
Energy Profile:OI-xxxx: defines Peak Position?
Extension:An Extension is a NSR: it is a customer-specific adaptation of a calibration range.
FCC:See Calculation Steps
Firmware status:Information raised up from the firmware to inform the analytical software about the instrument status
FOR, Final Order Report:The order for an instrument; contains financial details on how much it will cost.
Global condition:Set of parameters describing: Source spark shape for OES, HVPS, CCD Acquisition parameters
Global Count:Sum of the signal from the area between Threshold and Threshold+Window
Gonio line:Combination of XRF analytical parameters that allow the measurement of a specific analytical line on a goniometer: power, transition, crystal, primary beam device, secondary beam device
Grade:See Quality
Grating:Optical component used to disperse the light, composed of many grooves (for PMTs) or holographic (for CCD). Depending on the number of grooves and on the "dispersive ability" of the grating, the analytical line will be detected in 1st order, 2nd order, 3rd order, etc.
HVCal, High Voltage Calibration:HVCal (High Voltage Calibration) is a process that guarantees maximum sensitivity by adjusting the high voltage of the detectors for a given element. The optimum detector voltage for a certain wavelength is a known value. However, a difference remains because the high-voltage module is not linear and its output voltage is approximate. To correct this error, a correction is applied to the setpoint of the high-voltage generator. This correction is obtained by calculating the optimum regression between several real voltages, in general 4 or 5.
HVPS:High Voltage Power Supply (for PMT)
Instrument:A spectrometer (either optical- or XRay-based)
Instrument Knowledge:Instrument-specific (i.e. for a particular instrument) adaptation of the Master Knowledge.
Intensity:the vertical axis (Intensity in gonio scan means maximum intensity)
Interference:In physics, interference is a phenomenon in which two waves superpose to form a resultant wave of greater, lower, or the same amplitude. In MVR system it works as mathematical corrections. In OES we distinguish 2 different kind of interferences : additive (due to spectral overlap between 2 close optical lines), multiplicative (often called inter-element)
IOP-Procs:A validation tool used during the QC phase of testing.
Integration Time:See Counting Time
iSpark:See OES iSpark
LDAP:Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, a protocol notably used for central storage of usernames and passwords.
LDC:See Calculation Steps
Limit of Detection, LoD:see DL
LIMS:Laboratory Instrument Management System; collects data from all spectrometers in a location and controls them. This is a workflow manager, out of scope for Toucan, as it interfaces with OXSAS.
Line choice:Kind of cookbook to set in Analytical software the best lines (segment) to use for calculating the concentration. It is mainly used to select the best line for an element based on the concentration level.
Line Configurator Software:This software is the tools used by sales representatives to gather customer's requirements as calibrations and translate them, if possible into an optical plan. This software is currently a standalone software called CLOE2 and must be integrated into Toucan
LS:See Calculation Steps
LOD:See Limit-of-Dection
Mapping:See Spotting/Mapping
Master Knowledge:Master Knowledge is managed by R&D (to launch new applications) and by Manufacturing (updates, maintenance of the knowledge). It contains all the required information to build Calibration curves and to perform QA tests.
Master Plan:Impossible (i.e. cannot be built) optical plan that contains every available optical line, rules for availability, for a combination of matrixes for a specific grating
Matrix:see Base
ME:See Calculation Steps
MRE:See Calculation Steps
MSSQL:A database management system from Microsoft.
MVR:Multi-Variate Regression; algorithm to find the calibration coefficients.
MVR DLL: A library used by Toucan to calculate MVR. Maintained by Lucas Guillaume.
N1:See Calculation Steps
NIST:National Institute of Standards and Technology.
Non-repudiation:A proof that the data has not been changed after its first creation.
NSR, Non-Standard Request:A special request from a customer that will be charged separately, since it is not in the standard "menu" of options to choose from. Examples are extensions on calibration ranges (so-called extensions).
NXRD:OI-xxxx: what does it mean, and how does it relate to XRD?
OBI:See Calculation Steps
OES:Optical Emission Spectroscopy is a technique allowing to determine the elemental composition of a broad range of metals. This technique typically takes some tens of seconds to analyse a sample.
OES iSpark:(product line) Optical spectrometer, using PMT and optionally CCD. These are in fixed locations. This instrument offers mid- to high-end performance.
OES easySpark:(product line) Optical spectrometer, using only CCD (has a special version of CARL). The easySpark is an entry level instrument.
Optical Line:Hardware position of a PMT, filters and slits
Optical Plan:Describes where PMTs are to be mounted, what sensitivity class, and which diffractor to be used. Also describes secondary optics such as filters.
OXSAS:The application that ships with the Spectrometer to the customer. It controls measuring and reports on the results. It also has the configuration of the instrument.
PCal, PCAL, Position Calibration:Before being able to get analytical results from the instrument, it is essential to perform a calibration in position of crystals. When the crystal and detector equipment are positioned for a given angle, we want the system to be as much as possible at the best position but a mechanical positioning error occurs.
Peak Position:OI-xxxx, defined by Energy Profile
Phase:See Domain model of an OES Analysis : a Phase consists of many sparks, as part of a Run. Every Phase has its unique Source Condition.
PHD, Pulse Height Discriminator:This is one pair of (Threshold, Window). Sometimes the Window-parameter is called "Duration"
PMT:PhotoMultiplier tube; detector used in optical spectrometry, comes in different classes of sensitivity. It has a narrow field of view, so the position determines what optical line can be detected.
PNC:See Calculation Steps
Position Calibration:See PCal
Position Scan:OI-xxxx, results in TwoTheta
Profile:Operation that consists in positioning and fine tuning OES spectrometer optical lines.
Primary beam device:Device that filters X-Ray before the sample. Also see secondary beam device
Prospect:A company that has expressed interest in buying an instrument, it asks a quotation for an instrument. This prospect may later turn into a customer by ordering the proposed configuration.
Pure:A sample is called "pure" when it has a high concentration of the matrix (and hence low concentrations of other Elements).
QA:Quality Assurance: second step after manufacturing, precondition to Calibration. Allows to quantify a line's sensitivity and Detection Limit, and to compare these values with target values. It usually allows to check that optical alignment is correct and that settings (to operate correctly the different detectors) are also correct.
QC:Quality Control: first step after manufacturing, precondition to QA. Checks whether every individual part is working correctly: "can the PMT on channel 24 detect a signal?" See also StrongQC
Quality:A quality is a grade, or a combination of several grades. For a given matrix, chemical elements may vary between 2 values (Min-Max%), and these combinations of elements within specific ranges form the grades.
QuantAS:Software that performs semi quantitative analysis
RCI:See Calculation Steps
Repro:Running the same Measurements (with all its runs) again, multiple times. This gives information on the reproducibility of a Measurement; this is only used in the QA-phase of building an instrument.
RII:See Calculation Steps
RNI:See Calculation Steps
Run:See Domain model of an OES Analysis : a Run is one "burn spot" on a sample, consisting of many sparks.
SCI:See Calculation Steps
Scintillator:Specific kind of detector used for XRF analysis
Secondary beam device:OI-xxxx. Also see primary beam device
Segment:Sub-curve used to have a best fit between intensities and concentration. Fitting optimization on the whole curve.
Slit:OI-xxxx
Source condition:See Analytical condition
SourceMaster:A database of for OES : Optical Lines OES for CCD, OES Source conditions, OES global conditions. For XRF : XRF analytical assistant, UniQuant, Gonio lines lib, Firmware status, Instrument status, Phases
Spectrum:The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of frequencies (the spectrum) of electromagnetic radiation and their respective wavelengths and photon energies.
Spotting / Mapping:The ARL PERFORM'X provides the ability to restrict the analysis area to allow analysis of small samples and the ability to acquire X-ray maps for elements of interest. This feature uses an aperture or elliptical mask to restrict the analysed area. The size of the mask used defines the size of analysis area on the sample and defines the spatial resolution. The sample is moved using rotation and linear axis movements so that the feature to be analysed is at the optimum analysis position.
Stability (Long and Short):Control of the stability of instrument to check reproducibility (Long term) and repeatability (Short term). These final tests are used to validate the analytical performances of the instrument.
StrongQC:A more elaborate version of QC that tests all sensors, before shipping the instrument to Ecublens for completion of QA.
SUS:Setting-Up-Sample: a sample that is shipped with the machine to do regular drift-correction in intensity. These special samples are not used for calibrations, and so they are not managed in CARL (or Toucan) as calibration samples. They are not certified but they are homogenous for the elements they correct.
Task:Information in analytical software about measurement usage (SUS analysis, unknown sample analysis...)
Tau:OI-xxxx, special sample for UniQuant
Template instrument:Every available components and specific parameters for a specific instrument. Also see Master Plan
Thermo Fisher Scientific, TFS:TFS has the mission to "enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer. Whether our customers are accelerating life sciences research, solving complex analytical challenges, improving patient diagnostics and therapies or increasing productivity in their laboratories, we are here to support them." TFS will use Toucan.
Threshold:Defines a border for counting signal from the sensor, together with the Window
Toucan:The set of data and applications needed to create the optical plan, and test and calibrate the resulting